>> Bianca Gandolfo: So this is JavaScript
fundamentals to functional programming.
We're gonna learn
the fundamentals of JavaScript by
applying them to functional
utility methods.
So it's gonna be a fun class and
I probably should introduce myself first.
So my name's Bianca, I'm an open-source
JavaScript framework developer,
consultant, and a trainer.
I work at Bitovi,
which is based in Chicago.
We are a JavaScript consulting firm that
builds our own open-source framework.
DoneJS, CanJS, any kind of JavaScript
tool that you can think of,
we have a like Webpack kind of tool.
We have a documentation generator.
We have a testing framework.
So we do it all and it's really cool.
I've been learning a lot working there.
I've been there for about six months now.
Kind of diving into morale of
the meta programming side of things,
which has been very interesting.
You can follow me on Twitter,
@BiancaGando,
it makes me feel popular if you do that.
And about me, aside from JavaScript stuff,
I like really bad puns.
So if you think of one, let me know.
I also really like board games, riddles
and mysteries, and stuff like that.
So that's me.
So I just wanna start off to be
clear that this course is not
really about functional programming.
There are courses out there
about functional programming.
This course is about
JavaScript fundamentals.
And we use functional programming because
I believe that the core concepts that it
takes the understand and
use functional programming methods.
Will just help you become deeper
with the JavaScript language.
So the main things that we're
gonna cover are objects, arrays,
functions and high order functions,
scope closures, things like that.
And we are going to practice those
by using functional utility methods.
And if you have no idea what that is yet,
you'll learn all about them,
and also implementing them.
So not only will we be using them but
we'll be implementing them.
So then when you move onto
your future courses or
maybe you're picking up rxts or
something like that.
You will understand like how this
stuff works under the hood and
it will make you just a better
developer in general.
You'll be able to understand
how this stuff works.
You don't just trust in the magic,
you understand the magic cuz you
implemented it yourself, cool.
Awesome, anyone surprised
by this statement?
No?
We're good?
Okay, good.
Sometimes people
come in with the wrong idea, awesome.
But this is probably surprising,
because this course is also about
figuring out what happened to Mr. Body.
Mr. Body is a millionaire tycoon who
knows all the secrets of his friends.
He threatened to exploit these secrets,
and was murdered.
So through this course,
we'll figure out who killed Mr. Body.
So now you can see why I like
board games and mysteries.
And all of this, it gets a little
complicated because we'll also be
doing some JavaScript, maybe a little bit.
But mostly we're gonna be
figuring out this murder mystery.
So just a review,
you're gonna strengthen your
understanding of tricky jobs concepts.
We're gonna be learning about
functional utility methods.
What are those?
Have you ever heard of like, each,
it's not super functional, but
it's kinda the stepping stone map reduce,
concat, things like that.
Those are what I talk
when I say functional utility
methods that's what I mean.
We're gonna understand
how to implement them,
and we're gonna apply our
JavaScript fundamentals throughout.
Learn some ES6 features.
When I originally thought about
this course, I thought I would just
rewrite everything in ES6, and
that would be the upgraded version.
But then I realized that, in doing that,
we would lose a lot of the key concepts.
A lot of ES6 is syntactically sugar.
And to really master JavaScript you have
to understand what it's really doing.
So we're gonna be focusing on ES5, and
then adding ES6, if that makes sense.
So it's not that this whole course
is gonna be totally in ES6.
It's not gonna be arrow functions,
constant let everywhere.
But we will be going into how some ES6
features effect things like objects,
arrays, functions, and Things like that.
Cool?
And we'll also figure out,
the murder mystery.
That's the bonus.
So a little more about expectations.
I expect everyone here to be sincere,
but not serious.
I want to have fun.
This is an interactive course.
My style is very socratic.
So expect for me to call on you.
You may have warning ahead of time,
you may not.
So just know that now, maybe take a deep
breath while you're digesting that.
And this is important for
all of us, right?
It's not about embarrassing you,
it's about getting a pulse of
where we're all at, right?
So we're here together,
we're learning together as a team.
And I wanna make sure that we're all
getting to the same place, right?
And if someone's left behind,
that means that probably I messed up and
I missed something.
So, that's a part of it.
But you do have a way out.
I used to not, but
I've gotten nicer in my old age.
So either I'll ask you a question.
Sometimes I'll warn you,
sometimes I won't.
But you have to be prepared either to
answer it, or to ask me a question.
So if you're terrified of me
calling on you, just make sure
that you note a question around every
few slides, and then you'll be fine.